
# Sed Command


**1. Replacing or substituting string :** Sed command is mostly used to replace the text in a file. The below simple sed command replaces the word “unix” with “linux” in the file.

- `$ sed 's/present_text/update_text/' geekfile.txt`

- `$ sed 's/unix/linux/' geekfile.txt`

**2. Replacing the nth occurrence of a pattern in a line :** Use the /1, /2 etc flags to replace the first, second occurrence of a pattern in a line. The below command replaces the second occurrence of the word “unix” with “linux” in a line.

- `$ sed 's/unix/linux/2' geekfile.txt`

**Replacing all the occurrence of the pattern in a line :** The substitute flag /g (global replacement) specifies the sed command to replace all the occurrences of the string in the line.

- `$ sed 's/unix/linux/g' geekfile.txt`

**3. Replacing string on a specific line number :** You can restrict the sed command to replace the string on a specific line number. An example is

- `$ sed '3 s/unix/linux/' geekfile.txt`

**4. Printing only the replaced lines :** Use the -n option along with the /p print flag to display only the replaced lines. Here the -n option suppresses the duplicate rows generated by the /p flag and prints the replaced lines only one time.

- `$ sed -n 's/unix/linux/p' geekfile.txt`

**5. Deleting lines from the the file :** 

_a. To Delete a particular line say n in this example
Syntax:_

- `$ sed 'nd' filename.txt`

_b. To Delete a last line_

- `$ sed '$d' filename.txt`

_c. To Delete line from range x to y_

- `$ sed 'x,yd' filename.txt`

_d. To Delete from nth to last line_

- `$ sed 'nth,$d' filename.txt`

_e. To Delete pattern matching line_

- `$ sed '/pattern/d' filename.txt`

_f. Delete blank Lines_

- `$ sed '/^$/d' a.txt`


**6. Insert one blank line after each line:**

- `$ sed G a.txt`

**7. To insert two blank lines**

- `$ sed 'G;G' a.txt`

**8. Delete blank lines and insert one blank line after each line** 

- `$ sed '/^$/d;G' a.txt`

**9.  Insert a blank line below every line which matches “love”**

- `$ sed '/love/G' a.txt`

**10.  Insert 5 spaces to the left of every lines** 

- `$ sed 's/^/     /' a.txt`



### View/Print the files 

**11. Print from nth line to end of file**
Syntax: sed -n ‘n,$p’ filename

- `$ sed -n '3,$'p a.txt`

**12. Print the line only which matches the pattern**
Syntax: sed -n /pattern/p filename

- `$ sed -n /every/p a.txt`

**13. Replace one pattern followed by the another pattern**
Syntax: sed ‘/followed_pattern/ s/old_pattern/new_pattern/’ filename

- `$ sed '/is/ s/live/love/' a.txt`
